Let's now move on to look at the second conditional structure provided by B B.
A select case statement.
So in 11 using condition ALS and looping,
let's open zero to You didn't select case statements.
And in this example,
what we want to do is to display a formal date in this cell,
one that includes the use of an ordinary Let's go into developer visual basic.
And here you'll see we've got the function that we wrote in the last video,
unless I didn't there just for comparison.
The reason that we used if else if in that example,
is that we had a complex test,
so we were testing for a different possibility.
Each time where you're evaluating the same expression each time,
it's more efficient to use a select case statement.
So if we were purely evaluated and Engy version and nothing else,
select case would have been a better option.
Let's write a function that uses select case as opposed to,
if insert procedure tight assumption and let's call it dates with war journal Excel likes
to put new functions at the bottom of the page.
Sunday is in the movies to the top for convenience.
How function won't need any input.
So nothing goes inside the parentheses.
All we need to specify is the type of data it returns.
And since we're gonna be using concatenation,
we'll end up with a string.
So after the closing parenthesis,
we need a string.
Next.
Let's create a couple of variables to make life easy for ourselves.
So first of all,
we have a variable toe hold the ordinary itself them str orginal a string and then let's
have an integer variable toe hold the day of the month So dim LNG day as long next week and
populate l N g day.
So let's day equal and we can use the BB a day v v a date time,
don't they?
It takes a single granite and which is the date they killed all equals a man.
We again used to be a to specify today's date again deviate update time.
In this time we use the date function.
Now let's have a look of the generic structure of a select case statement.
We have the keywords select case.
Then we haven't test expression.
Then we have a series of case tests and you'll notice that we can combine them into a comma
separated list after each case statement specify what we want to do.
If any of these values proves to be true,
just as we have the option for a cattle else statement when we're working with if
statements with the length case we have case else,
they all of the case statements proved to be false.
Case else will apply and then we use in select to close the whole structure.
So now scenario the test expression will simply be LNG date.
That's something we're evaluating and then we need to test for S t nd on rt So s t we test
for 1 21 and 31.
And of course,
if LNG day he calls any of those three our str orginal needs to contain S t and then we can
just copy that for nd on rd so nd would be to or 22 and R D would be three or 23 if LNG
contains none of these values.
Enter case else we want str orginal to equal th So now we have our ordered all we can
construct our final date on return.
That date is the value of our function.
So after the select a statement,
we simply say,
Let my function.
In other words,
let's date with orginal equal most of all the day which is contained in L N G Day and then
we use an percent to tag on.
Str orginal amber send.
I meant to generate the rest of the date I The month in the year we used the very
convenient all that function.
So that is a string function so excited we ve a got strings.
No formats on the expression that we format in on the expression that we format in is the
date that's BB a hot date time don't date comma And then the four minutes which has to go
in close will be a space followed by the full name of the month.
So four times space followed by the full year.
So for wise and closed parentheses,
toe end the full meant function.
So that's our function.
Let's just test it and then let's use it in our worksheet so he can delete the static date
and replace it with equals states with little way enter,
we get our dates,
which includes the orginal